Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
It's an impressive collection. You have some very rare editions here.
Are you sure you want to send them all?
They're of no use to father, not anymore.
Not since he's been this way.
His library was his whole world. Now it's just...
...a painful memory.
Unbearably painful.
I understand.
Well,
at a rough preliminary estimate
you have a collection here
- worth around 600,000 dollars. - 600,000?
Yes, worth that about.
I have picked up one or two volumes
that merit special attention.
This "Persiles", for example, is important.
I'd hang on to that. It'll never depreciate.
- It's a good investment. - Valuable?
Very valuable.
As for this "Hypneratomachia di Poliphilo"
by Colonna, Venice, 1545,
I'm sure I can find you a buyer.
But I wouldn't let the rest go for less than 500,000
under any circumstances.
It may take a month to sort of place them
so in the meantime I advise you to be patient
A month?
Yes, a month or two, depends on how much of a hurry you're in, and see,
more hurry, less money.
- Of course. - Well, that's my advice anyway.
I'm sure you wouldn't want to rush things
but please feel free to consult another expert
aand if you have any questions you know where to reach me.
Incidentally, this four-volume edition
of "Don Quixote" is quite nice, but not particularly valuable.
Now, I could
take it off your hands
right away.
How much were you thinking of?
Oh, I couldn't go more than 4,000 - 4,200
Oh, fine.
- You here? - Hello Witkin.
You didn't waste much time.
Listen, there's a small fortune in there. Help yourself.
You're a vulture Corso! A vulture!
- Who isn't in our business? - You'd stuck to anything.
For a Quixote by Ybarra? You bet I would.
Unscrupulous! Thoroughly unscrupulous!
Happy hunting.
I've just got on the phone with Witkin. He's spitting blood.
Really? What's his problem?
He said you're a double-dealing moneygrabbing bastard.
He thought he had that deal sold up. He said you queered his pitch.
He should have been quicker and offer them more.
- May I? - Sure.
And he said your evaluation was way over the top.
And those people coming out in a rash
now they're asking twice what those books are worth.
Let's face it.
- You screw it off, that's what it's called. - That's what it's called.
He also said that you snatched the "Don Qui-"
Ybarra, "Don Quixote", 1780.
All four volumes.
Son of a bitch. Fantastic.
Fantastic, you are the best.
That client of yours, the Swiss, d'ya think he'd still be interested in this edition?
I have Witkin on my ass, I really told him I had no part in this operation.
Except 10%.
20%. The Swiss is my client.
No deal.
- 15, for my children's sake. - You don't have any children.
I'm still young, give me time.
Ten.
...and earlier in 1580, in "De la Dèmonomanie des sorciers"
by the French Jean Bodin.
Bodin was probably the first to attempt to estabilish a system,
if the term "system" may be applied to the Middle Ages,
for classifying the contemporary perceptions of evil.
In Bodin we find one of the first definitions of the word "witch".
I quote:
"A witch is a person
who, though cognizant in the laws of God,
endeavours to act thorugh the medium of a pact with the Devil.
To assist them in their work, many witches kept familiars,
that is to say creatures such as cats or toads
in which supernatural spirits or demons were thought to reside.
For those of you, ladies and gentlemen who wish to dare more deeply
into the controvertial subject of witchcraft,
a great deal of relevant information
may be found in the following works:
Nicolas Remis "Demonolatriae libri"
and "Compendium Maleficarum", by Francesco Maria Guazo.
I see you were stimulated by my little talk, Mr. Corso.
Did I snore?
Most nice of you to ask. No, not that I noticed.
Shall we go?
- Don't you sleep nice? - Like a baby.
Strange.
I'd have bet a brace of Gutenberg Bibles
you spend half the night with your eyes peeled
You're one of those lean, hungry restless types
that put the wind up Julius Caesar.
Men who stab their friends in the back.
Not that I suspect you have many friends, do you Mr. Corso?
Your kind seldom does.
That makes two of us.
You're right, of course.
Your friendships don't concern me in the least.
Our relations have always been strictly commercial, and that's the way I like it.
The professional and the personal should be mutually exclusive.
Listen, I came here to do some business, not to shoot to breeze.
If you want to expound you personal philosophies, write another book.
You don't like me, do you?
I don't have to like you. You're a client and you pay well.
You're a priviledged, Mr. Corso.
Very few people ever set foot in here.
This is my private collection.
Some bibliophiles specialise in gothic novels,
others in Books of Hours.
All my own rare editions have the same protagonist:
the Devil.
- May I take a look? - Yes.
That's why I brought you here.
Beautiful, aren't they?
Their soft sheen, their superb guilding,
not to mention the centuries of wisdom they contain.
I know people who would kill for a collection like this.
The "Ars Diavoli".
You'll never see as many books on the subject anywhere else in the world.
They're the rarest, the choicest editions in existence.
It's taken me a lifetime to assemble them.
Only the supreme masterpiece was missing.
Come.
"The Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadows".
- You're familiar with it. - Yes, Venice 1666.
The author and printer Aristide Torchia was burned by the Holy Inquisition
together with all his works.
- Only three copies survived. - One.
The Catalogue has three copies surviving, of private ownership:
the Fargas, the Kessler and the Telfer.
It's true, you know your business. But you're mistaken nonetheless.
According to my own research, only one is authentic.
Well, three are known.
That's the trouble.
- Where did you get it? - I bought it from Telfer.
- Telfer? - Yes, he fnally sold it to me.
The day before he killed himself.
That's good timing.
"Silentium est aureum".
- Silence is golden. - Precisely.
Ever heard of the "Delomelanicon"?
I have heard of it, yes. It's a myth, isn't it?
A book reputed to have been written by Satan himself
No myth. That book existed.
Torchia actually acquired it.
The engravings you are now admiring were adapted by Torchia from the "Delomelanicon".
They form a kind of satanic riddle.
Correctly interpreted with the aid of the original text,
and sufficient inside information,
they're reputed to conjure up the Prince of Darkness in person.
You don't say.
Are you a religious man, Mr. Corso?
I mean, do you believe in the supernatural?
I believe in my percentage.
Aren't you getting dizzy standing there?
What is it that you want from me, Balkan?
I want you to go to Europe and investigate.
The other two copies are in Portugal and France.
I want you to find some way of comparing them with mine.
Every page, every engraving, the binding, everything.
I'm convinced only one is authentic I wanna know which.
That can be an expensive trip.
That's to get you started. Spend what you need.
What if I find that your copy's a forgery?
It's quite possible.
Really?
It doesn't appear to be.
Even the paper sounds couture.
Even so, something's wrong.
You mean the Devil won't show up.
If all three copies turn out to be bogus or incomplete your work will be done.
If, on the other hand, one of them turns out to be genuine, I'll finance you further.
I want you to get it for me.
At all costs. Nevermind how.
"Nevermind how" sounds illegal.
It wouldn't be the first time you've done something illegal.
- Not that illegal. - Hence the size of the check.
Do a good job. I'll double it.
There's gotta be something wrong with it if you're letting it out of your hands.
I have the outmost faith in you, Mr. Corso.
There's nothing more reliable than a man whose loyalty can be bought for hand cash.
Good morning. Dean Corso.
I'm terribly sorry to disturb you at a time like this.
It would be very helpful ma'am if you could tell me what you know about
this book.
- Isn't this one of my husband's books? - Right.
It was in his collection until very recently. He sold it to a client of mine.
I'm trying to authenticate it.
He sold it, you say?
How strange, this was one of his most treasured possessions.
- He never mentioned this sale? - No, it's news to me.
- Who bought it? - A private collector.
May I know his name?
I'm afraid that's confidential.
- I suppose he has a bill of sale. - No problem there.
Is this your job? Authenticating rare books?
And tracking them down, yes.
- You're a book-detective. - Kind of.
Do you recall when and where your husband acquired this book?
In Spain.
We were vacationing at Toledo. Andrew was very excited.
He paid a great deal of money for it.
He was a fanatical collector.
So I gather.
I'll show you.
It's impressive.
Andrew used to spend many hours in here.
Too many.
Did he ever try it out?
I don't understand.
The book.
Did he ever use it to perform some kind of ritual
intended to produce a supernatural effect?
- Are you serious? - Yes, absolutely.
Andrew was a trifle eccentric, Mr. Corso,
But he wasn't insane.
It's true he'd been acting
strange in those last few days,
he shut himself up in here, he seldom emerged, except for meals.
That morning I was awoken by the screams of the maid.
He'd hanged himself.
Whatever he was up to,
I certainly can't see him chanting mambo jambo or trying to raise the dead.
The Devil, Mrs. Telfer. This book is designed to raise the Devil.
"Sic luceat lux".
"Thus might the light shine".
Son of a bitch. Where did you get this?
Balkan.
He wants me to research it.
Balkan owns a "Nine Gates"?
Recently acquired by the late lamented Andrew Telfer.
Trust Balkan...
What does he need you for? I don't suppose he plans to sell it?
He wants me to compare it with the other two survival copies
which are in Portugal and France.
So I'm off to Europe.
Compare it?
Yes. Only one of the three is authentic, he says.
But this looks genuine enough.
Chrissake, it's gotta be worth a million. Take care of it.
That's why I'm here. I need you to stash it for me.
'Cause I'm starting to see things.
- Like what? - Uninvited visitors, unfamiliar faces.
I don't trust anyone, not even Balkan.
I come to think I'm not even sure I trust you.
You know I wouldn't screw you unless there was a good reason:
money, women, business...
Other than that you can relax.
- I'll take it up on my way to the airport. - Sure.
These engravings are terrific.
Or horrific, whichever.
Sensational, absolutely sensational.
May I come in?
Please, sit down.
I've come to talk business.
Yesterday, when you came to see me about that book,
I was too surprised to react as I should have done.
I mean it really was one of Andrew's favourites.
So you said.
I'd like to get it back.
- That could be a problem. - Not necessarily, it all depends.
- On what? - On you.
I don't understand, Mrs. Terfel. The book is not mine to dispose of.
You work for money, I take it?
What else?
- I have a great deal of money. - I'm very happy for you.
You could stage a theft.
I imagine your client is well insured.
- I'm a professional, ma'am. - You're a professional mercenary.
Mercenaries work for the highest bidder.
I could throw in a bonus.
- This has happened before in some place. - I know, in the movies.
She had an automatic her stocking...
No automatic.
- Would you like a drink? - Why not?
Okay. Where is it?
Where's what?
Don't fuck with me!
I thought I already did.
You have reached "Bernie's Rare Books". Please leave your message after the beep.
Bernie, you there?
Pick up.
Give me a minute, I won't be long.
- Then you can take me on the "Kennedy" - No problem sir.
Oh Jesus!
Jesus Christ...
None problem?
Stop.
Stop by that phone booth, pull over.
No problem sir.
He isn't available at the time. May I know who's calling?
- You'd like to leave a message? - No, I have to talk with him at once.
I'm afraid he is in transit.
If you can give me your number,
I'll have him return it when he checks us.
No, I'm in a phone booth. It's an emergency.
I have to speak with him right now. Right now, do you hear me?
Right now.
One moment.
- Are you there, Mr. Corso? - Yeah.
Ok, I'll put him through.
Mr. Corso, what have you got for me?
More than I'd bargained for.
- What do you mean? - I mean I quit.
I wanna return you the book. Where are you?
I'm disappointed in you, Mr. Corso. You never let me down before.
Well, this is different.
Do you remember Bernie Orenstein?
The dealer?
I gave him your book to stash it for me
and now he's dead, murdered.
- Because of the book? - What else?
Look, I've never said it would be easy. If it's a question of money...
It isn't the money, I want out.
This matter means a great deal to me, Mr. Corso.
I'm not an ungenerous man, you know that.
Proceed as arranged, and you can tack another zero onto your fee.
What... Hey, where are you?
- Good evening. - Good evening. Come in.
- You speak English? - Yes, I do.
I would like to get your opinion on this.
What a habit for a book binder...
"The Nine Gates" - superb edition. Very rare.
The Telfer copy.
Yes. You used to own it, right?
- We used to, yes. - We sold it.
...when the opportunity presented itself. It was too good to..
...too good to miss. An excellent sale.
An excellent buying! Impeccable condition.
Impeccable. Are you the present owner?
No, A client of mine.
I would never have believed she would part with it. Never.
- She? - Mrs. Telfer.
I understood that it was Mr. Telfer that had bought it.
He'd pay for it.
It was Mrs. Telfer who made him buy it.
- He didn't seem particularly... - ...interested.
An exceptional specimen.
- Do you think it could be a forgery? - Forgery? Hear that, Pablo?
I took you for a professional. You speak too lightly of forgeries.
Far too lightly.
Forging a book is very expensive.
Paper of the period, right inks, Too expensive to be profitable.
- Still it can be done. - Of course.
It requires a great skill, but yes it can be done.
Do you think that could be the case here?
What makes you ask?
My client wishes to satisfy himself on the book's authenticity.
His name's Balkan. Boris Balkan of New York.
- All books have a destiny of their own. - And a life of their own.
Mr. Balkan is a celebrated collector.
He's no fool, he must know this book is authentic.
- We know it. - So must he.
- We've had this book for years. - Many years.
With ample opportunity to study it thoroughly.
The printing, the binding,
are magnificent examples of 17th century Venetian craftsmanship.
Finest rag-paper. Resistent to the passage of time.
None of your modern wood-pulp.
Watermarks, ink,
typefaces...
If this is a forgery,
or a copy with missing pages restored, is the work of a master.
Have you studied the engravings? They seem to have some underlying significance.
But of course.
Here, for example.
This one could be interpreted as a warning:
"Venture too far" it seems to say, "and danger will descend on you from above".
These types of books often contain little puzzles.
Especially in the case of such an illustruous collaborator.
Collaborator?
You could have not proceeded, very far in your research, Señor.
Here. look close.
Don't you see? Only six of the nine engravings were signed by Aristide Torchia.
Yes. And the other three?
This is one of them.
L, C, F.
Who's LCF?
Think.
Lucifer?
Very perceptive of you, Señor.
Torchia was burnt alive
because he wrote this book in collaboration with someone else.
Come on. You can't honestly believe...
The man who wrote this book did so in alliance with the Devil
and went to the stake for it.
Even hell has its heroes, Señor.
- I have seen you before. - Have you?
Yes.
- Are you travelling in this car? - The next one.
The sleeper... I travel on the cheap.
- Are you a student? - Something like that.
I like trains.
- Trains I'm on? - Just trains.
What's your name?
Guess.
- Green eyes? - That'll do.
- What's yours? - Corso.
Strange name.
Italian, it means "to run".
You don't look like a runner to me. You're more the quiet type.
Well, give my regards to Balkan. Tell him I'm doing my best.
- Balkan? - Nevermind.
See you around.
Maybe.
I wouldn't be surprised.
Yes?
Yes... Dean Corso, Mr. Fargas.
- Corso? Oh yes, please come in. - Thank you.
Please.
Home sweet home.
You won't say no to a brandy I take it?
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
What handsome glasses.
They're the only ones I have left.
- It has to have been a beautiful place. - It was.
But old families are like ancient civilisations,
they wither and die.
There they are, 834 of them.
What a pity you didn't see them in better times.
I used to have 5,000.
But these are the survivors.
So this is the Fargas collection.
Not quite as I imagined it I must say.
C'est la vie, my friend.
But I keep them in perfect conditions, safe from damp, light, heat, rats.
I dust and air them every day.
These are the occult.
- What do you think? - Not bad.
Not bad indeed. At least ten of them are extremely rare.
Here: Plancy, "Dictionnaire Infernal",
first edition, 1844.
Leonardo Fioravanti's "Compendi dei Secreti", 1571.
And there it is,
in perfect condition.
It has travelled the world for three and a half centuries,
yet it might have been printed yesterday.
Is it in order? I mean you haven't detected anything unusual?
Unusual? no.
The text is complete, the engravings too, nine plus the title page's,
as the catalogue states, just like the Kessler in Paris and the Telfer in New York.
Yes... It isn't the Telfer anymore.
Telfer killed himself.
But he sold his copy to Boris Balkan first.
Oh, Balkan.
If he sets his eye on a book no price is too high.
Not that I would ever sell this one. Not at any price.
It's strange that he should have sent you here if he...
...already had...
Do you have it here?
May I see it?
Oh, superb.
Beautiful. Identical.
Two of the only three to escape the flames
reunited for the first time in over three centuries.
Yes.
Look at this slight imperfection here, the damaged "S"...
The same type, the same impression.
Oh, incredible.
As you see if it wasn't for this slight discoloration on the back of your copy
no one could tell them apart.
If you don't mind I would like to stay for a while and examine them in detail.
What are you looking for, Mr. Corso?
I'm not quite sure.
Some books are dangerous, not to be opened with impunity.
Very true.
I'll be damned!
Hello again.
- You didn't say you were bound for Sintra. - Neither did you.
What are you doing here?
Reading.
I can see that.
And bumping into people unexpectedly.
Yes, unexpected is right.
Are you on a business trip? Is that why you always carry that thing around?
- Just part of your course? - My course?
"Winning friends and influencing people". You said you're a student.
Did I?
So I am, in a way.
I like books. Do you?
- You been travelling long? - A while.
I don't suppose you ever travel by motorbike?
Sir? Excuse me sir. Phone call for you, sir.
- For me? Are you sure? - Yes sir. Please sir...
- Yes? - Mr. Corso?
My God, how did you find me?
- Made any progress? - Progress? Yeah, you can call it that.
Well?
Look, I can't talk here, I'm in the lobby. Let me call you back, where are you?
Nevermind that. Get them to transfer it to your room.
- I'll wait. - Alright.
Señor, pardon me. Could you send this up to my room?
- Yes. - Thank you very much.
- Still there? - Yes.
Alright. I've examined the Fargas copy.
It's authentic enough, at least it looks that way.
It's like yours, but there are discrepancies.
Discrepancies?
The engravings are not identical.
Just like keys in different hands,
doorways open in one copy and bricked up in the other...
- And there's another thing. - Yes. Yes, go on.
The ones that differ aren't signed Torchia. They're signed LCF.
- Still there? - LCF.
Listen, where are you anyway?
I must have that copy, Mr. Corso.
Get it for me.
The old man wouldn't sell it to save his life. He said as much.
Did he?
Hello? Hello?
Just a minute!
- What time is it? - Early, but you have to go.
- Go? Go where? - To Fargas' place.
I've already seen Fargas.
I think you should see him again.
What is this, some kind of practical joke? Who are you?
- What do you know about Fargas? - Get dressed. I'll wait for you outside.
Don't bother. He isn't there.
- Oh really, then where is he? - Over there.
God Almighty...
You want to get inside?
I had thought about it, yes.
You wait here.
Shit!
Well, did you find it?
You know, it's come to my attention that you know too goddam much.
Why do you keep following me around? Who are you working for?
You're wasting time asking all these questions. We better get out of here.
There's a flight from Lisbon to Paris at noon. We should just make it.
- What's with the "we"? - There are two of us, aren't there?
What happened back there?
The old man caught someone stealing, I guess.
- And what do you guess happened to him? - He drowned.
- With a little help from who? - He's dead, who cares?
I do.
I could easily end up the same way.
Not with me around to look after you.
- Oh I see, you're my guardian angel. - If you say so...
- Someone is playing a game with me. - Of course, you're part of it.
And you're getting to like it.
Keep the change.
Hello Gruber.
Hello Mr. Corso. Delighted to see you again.
We don't have any vacancies, but...
I'm sure I'll be able to organise something.
- Thank you very much. Please... - Thank you, sir.
- Excuse me? - Good morning madam.
The Kessler Foundation, please.
- Second floor. - Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I'm Dean Corso, I have an appointment with Baroness Kessler.
This way.
You have thirty minutes.
- Yes? - Monsieur Corso.
Oh yes, Mr. Corso. Come in.
I've heard a great deal about you.
- Nothing good I hope. - You hoped right.
Thanks, Simone.
Well, I'm reassured, Baroness, because
in my trade to be spoken well of
can be professionally disastrous.
My God.
Yes, there it is. The Kessler Collection.
You know I know your catalogue almost by heart?
Strange we haven't met before.
Your name is a byword among dealers and collectors.
But I imagine you know your own reputation better than I do.
Yes, well it does keep the wolf from the door, so to speak.
I'm sorry Baroness. Where you in the middle of something?
Of my latest work:
"The Devil, History and Myth". A kind of biography.
It will be published early next year.
- Why the Devil? - I saw him one day.
I was 15 years old and I saw him as plain as I see you now.
It was love at first sight.
You know, 300 years ago
you'd have been burned at the stake for saying something like that.
300 years ago I wouldn't have said it.
Nor would I have made a million by writing about it.
Yeah.
What is it you wish to discuss, Mr. Corso?
There's a book in your collection I'd like to examine if possible.
It's the book of "The Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadows".
The "Nine Gates"? An interesting work.
Everyone's been asking me about it lately.
Is that so?
Follow me.
You truly believe in the Devil, Baroness?
Enough to devote my life and my library to him.
Not to mention many years of work.
Don't you?
Almost.
This book demands a certain amount of faith.
Well, I'm afraid my faith's in short supply these days.
I know this work extremely well. I studied it for years.
Do you have any doubts about its authenticity?
Not wheresoever.
Are you sure?
My knowledge of this book is profound.
I wrote a biography of its author.
Yes, I read it: "Aristide Torchia, the Devil's Apprentice",
Excellent work.
A corageous man.
He died for the sake of this very book in 1667.
While studying the Black Arts in Prague,
he acquired a copy of the dread "Delomelanicon".
This is Torchia's adaptation of that work
which was written by Lucifer himself.
After they burned him at the stake, a secret society
was founded, to perpetuate its memory,
and preserve its secrets.
"The Order of the Silver Serpent".
What, a sect?
A kind of witches' coven.
For centuries they've met to read from this book
and worship the Prince of Darkness.
Today it's degenerated into a social club
for bored millionaires and celebrities,
who use its meetings as an excuse
to indulge their jaded sexual appetites.
I myself belonged to the Order,
years ago.
But time is too precious at my age
besides my orgy days are over.
I told them to go to the Devil.
You mean it's all about sex or...
Of course not.
They're under the illusion that they owe their money and success
to membership in the Order.
- Do they still meet? - Every year,
on the anniversary of Torchia's death.
They'll be meeting very soon now.
- And you said they read from this book. - Not this one.
I took mine back when Liana Telfer acquired the one in Toledo.
Victor Fargas is an unbeliever,
he's always refused to partecipate so naturally they use the Telfer copy.
Not that it has ever worked.
Did Andrew Telfer ever take part?
Telfer? Oh, no, no...
That creature Liana, married him for his money.
She comes from an old and aristocratic French family,
The "De Saint-Martins", but they were penniless.
So Liana used his dollars to restore her castle
and buy the "Nine Gates".
If he ever finds out what his wife gets up to at these gatherings
he'll probably kill himself.
Funny you should say that, Baroness. He hung himself last week.
Who exactly are you working for, Mr. Corso?
My client's name is irrelevant, Baroness.
I'm simply trying to authenticate his copy,
just the one that Telfer sold him before he died.
How stupid of me! I should have guessed.
You've out stage of welcome, Mr. Corso.
I was hoping to examine your copy in detail.
Certainly not.
Tell your client, who can only be Boris Balkan,
to come and examinate himself, if he dares.
Tell him not to send any more wolves in sheep clothing.
Now kindly leave.
Well, I'm sorry if I troubled you.
Thank you very much for your time.
You don't know what you're getting yourself into, Mr. Corso.
Get out before it's too late.
I'm afraid it already is, Baroness. Good day.
Thanks.
They're broken.
You should be more careful.
- I need a favour, Gruber. - Certainly, Mr. Corso.
Liana Telfer,
Maiden name De Saint-Martin, 40ish, brunette, dishy,
probably accompanied by
a black gentleman with
closely cropped
platinum blonde hair, and a moustache.
I wanna know if they're staying in some hotel here in Paris.
It'll take a little time...
Yes, of course. Start with the "Five Stars". That's your best bet.
- Very well sir. - Alright.
Are you feeling alright?
I've felt better, Gruber. Thanks.
Let me know if you locate.
Put this
against the back of your neck.
You were really great on there by the river.
I haven't thanked you for that.
Alright. Look...
I think it's about time you told me what's going on here.
- Someone's after your book. - No kidding.
And you? what do you feed into it?
Yeah?
Can I take it in the reception please?
Alright. I'll be right down.
- Yes? - Anything new?
Oh, His Master's voice again.
No, not much,
aside from the fact somene has tried to take my life a couple of times
Oh yes. Fargas has been murdered.
Murdered? How do you know?
I saw him. And his copy.
Or what was left of it anyway.
Someone had snatched the engravings and tried to burn the rest.
- What do you make of it? - It's tragic, it's tragic...
What about Baroness Kessler? How did you get on today?
- Where exactly are you? - What about her copy?
No, why do I get the impression that you've been breathing down my neck the entire time?
You're an investment of mine, Mr. Corso. I'm really looking after it.
The old woman swears her copy's authentic.
But I didn't get the chance to examine it closely.
She threw me out as soon as she guessed that you were behind my visit.
You're not exactly in her good books, if you know what I mean.
You must see her again.
Are you kidding? Have you seen her secretary?
Try the launch break.
Hello?
- Do you have a photocopy machine back there? - Yes sir.
- Can I use it? - Of course, sir.
Thank you.
Yes. Hello, Baroness. It's me, the wolf in sheep's clothing.
I thought I made myself bright clear, Mr. Corso.
Well...
I've got something for you, Baroness.
Kind of peace offering. Will you allow me to give it to you?
Please?
First let me apologise.
I should have told you right away that I work for Boris Balkan.
It was foolish of me to think that I could deceive someone as astute as yourself, so
please forgive me.
Flattering will get you nowhere, Mr. Corso.
Get on with it.
Right.
These
are for you.
What is this?
What is this supposed to be?
You said that your knowledge of "The Nine Gates" was extensive, but
did you ever compare your copy with the other two?
No.
Why?
Well, you should.
These are copies of the engravings in Balkan's book.
- You'll find that some of them differ from yours. - Differ?
So you question my book's authenticity, do you?
It that's your peace offering you can take it and go.
Mine "Nine Gates" is absolutely genuine.
I don't dispute that, Baroness.
In my opinion all three copies are genuine.
But the fact remains they display variations.
Variations?
If that were true it would be a revelation.
What makes you so sure?
I've already compared these with the Fargas engravings.
In his book
th keys were in the other hand.
Here the doorway wasn't bricked up.
And in this one the man was hanging by the other leg.
- Well? - Well what?
Look closely, Baroness.
The turrets.
Three in yours, four in Balkan's.
Amazing.
I'm convinced there'll be a third one in here somewhere.
Three variations in three copies makes nine.
Coincidence or something more.
Maybe Torchia hid the secret of "The Nine Gates" in three books, not one.
I must admit I'm impressed.
This puts an entirely different complexion on the matter.
You have my permission to investigate further, Mr. Corso.
Take as long as you need.
My permission did not extend to that, Mr. Corso.
Nobody smokes in my library.
Baroness?
Idiot!
Excuse me. There's something missing from my room.
- Has anyone been up there while I was out? - Only your wife, sir.
My wife? I don't have a wife!
Excuse me sir.
Yes? Yes, he's in front of me.
Alright.
For you sir. Booth nomber two.
Yes?
What news?
News?
Let me see... Well,
yes, the good news is that I got to examine the old woman's book.
and three of her engravings were signed LCF.
The bad news is that someone strangled her
and made a bonfire of her collection. Now that's tragic, wouldn't you say?
You put the words out of my mouth.
Yes. It's the Fargas story all over again.
I'm of the mind that they tore out the engravings before they torched the place.
That makes two sets they've got.
And my copy?
Well, I learnt my lesson fortunately.
I don't carry it around with me anymore
Otherwise it would have gone up in smoke.
Excellent. Good thinking.
Well, with the two copies gone that seems to conclude your assignment.
It only remains of you to return my book.
I'm staying at the Ritz. You can pick up your check at the same time.
Shall we say in half an hour?
There is more bad news.
- I don't have it. - You don't have it?
Someone lifted it from my room.
Listen to me very carefully, Mr. Corso.
I think you may already have some idea
of the length at which I'm prepared to go when I want something.
Unless you recuperate my property in double-quick time
you'll discover just how far that can be.
Where is it?
- Where is what? - The book. Where is it?
Would I be here if I took it?
You should know better by now.
I must apologise on my young colleague, Mr. Corso
Was unpardonable.
Is that her?
No sir, she was tall, dark hair, very chic, very elegant.
Which reminds me sir, I have the information you wanted.
The lady and gentleman you mentioned
they're staying at the Plaza Athen?Hotel
suite 209-211.
Thank you very much Gruber, I owe you one. I need a taxi, quick.
A taxi, quick.
Send this to Mr. Balkan at the Ritz. it's B-A-L-K-A-N.
- Fax it immediately. - Certainly, sir.
It was a pleasure to be at your service.
Ain't coming?
What do you plan to do if you see them?
Probably hide behind you.
Oh, that's them.
We should grab a taxi before they take off.
Let's go.
They're going.
Coming?
Couldn't you have picked something a little less conspicuous?
Don't be so picky.
Some people would give their eyeteeth for driving this.
Listen we can't sit on their tail forever, they'll bound and smell a rat.
How do I look?
Ridiculous.
Sit tight.
Take your pick.
No, you. You know everything.
If you say so...
We lost them.
No, not at that speed.
They must have gone the other way.
You mean I don't know everything after all?
Turn around.
30ish, brunette, dishy?
- What was her name again? - Telfer, Liana Telfer.
No, her maiden name.
- Saint-Martin. - Look.
Excuse me?
We're looking for the house of Madame De Saint-Martin.
The castle you mean?
The castle, I knew that.
Where's the castle?
Take the road behind the Church there.
- Thanks. - Not at all.
Keep going.
See them anywhere?
No.
Sorry to have to intrude on you like this.
What are you doing here?
I jumped like to pick up the book you stole from my room.
- That book is mine. - We've been through all this before.
My husband gave it to me.
It wasn't his to sell.
He sold it to get back at you?
What happened? Did he catch you with that albino?
How dare you?
Keep an eye on her.
Don't!
Be careful, she bites.
Hi.
Don't move! Either one of you.
Get the book.
Don't kill them up here, you'll make a mess.
Take them downstairs.
You'll go first.
Then you.
Down.
Open the door.
Watch out!
I didn't know you had it in you.
Eight Gates preceed the Serpent who guards the Word.
We give loyalty to you, Lord.
We devoted our bodies and souls to you.
The Serpent is a beast that never sleeps.
A beast whose eyes can see through the mirror of science.
We give loyalty to you, Lord. We...
Stay here and cover me. I'm going down.
We won't be afraid of the noose, or the blade, or the poison.
We give loyalty to you, Lord.
We devoted our bodies and souls to you.
We'll walk intact through the lepers and the plague.
We give loyalty to you, Lord.
We devoted our bodies and souls to you.
The last hidden one behind which is the Word
is the Ninth one. Teth, Enneae, Oded.
We give loyalty to you, Lord.
We devoted our bodies and souls to you.
- Glory to  Eloy, Agla, Zate... - Mambo Jambo! Mambo Jambo!
Look around you, all of you. What do you see?
A bunch of buffoons in fancy dress.
Do you think the Prince of Darkness would actually
deign to manifest himself
before the lights of you? He never has and he never will. Never.
You read from his book,
but you have no conception of its true power.
I alone have grasped its secret,
I alone have fathomed the Master's grand design.
I alone am worthy to enjoy the fruits
of that discovery: absolute power to determine my own destiny.
You're insane, Boris. Give it back to me!
You, Liana de Saint-Martin,
you're even guiltier than the rest of this pathetic rabble.
You have at least some idea of what this book can do in the right hands.
Yet you grant yourself to this farsical proceedings,
to these orgies of aging flesh
conducted in the Master's name. You're a charlatan!
Don't Corso, don't!
Let it be.
What is it with you?
He just murdered someone in public. You're off the hook
for the other killings. You should be grateful.
I'm ecstatic!
You're out of the job, it's over.
- What more do you want? - You know what.
Wait for me!
Not taking me for a ride?
You were working for him all along.
Funny, I thought you were.
Shit!
- Here you are sir. All's dry. - Thanks madam.
- Excuse me? - Yes?
Where is that?
Bernard I need you to show something to...
Here it is.
Yes, that's it.
Exactly.
One,
four,
three,
six,
seven,
five,
eight, two, nine.
The enigma is solved at last.
"To travel in silence by a long, unsecured road
to brave the arrows of misfortune and fear neither noose or fire,
to play the greatest of all games and win,
forgoing no expense
is to walk the vicissitudes of Fate
and gain at last the key
that will unlock the Ninth Gate ".
Corso?
What were you expecting? An apparition?
You're not wanted here Mr. Corso. Leave.
I'm the only apparition you'll see tonight.
You'll find a check waiting in my New York office,
payment in full.
You've killed for those. They're worth more than money.
Infinitely more, but they happen to be mine,
not yours.
Do you know something, Corso?
In spite of our differences
I have a sort of bug for you.
- I'm touched. - We have something in common, you and I.
We share the same passion. You've developed the same obsession, haven't you?
Unfortunately for you only one of us is destined to fulfil it.
You're out of your depth. Kindly go.
- I'm not leaving here empty handed. - Don't even think about it.
Stand aside.
I credited you with more finesse.
- You heard me? Stand back! - Put that away, it's not your style.
Don't come near!
Seems you found your proper niche at last.
I like that.
Now,
you can watch.
I'm entering an uncharted territory.
taking the road that leads to equality with God.
You can't come with me. I must travel alone.
But you may look on me and marvel.
- That's very kind of you. - Indeed it is.
There have been men who have been burned alive
or disembowelled for just a glimpse
of what you are about to witness.
I give you my allegiance, Master.
I pledge myself to you body and soul.
Let me fear neither noose, nor fire nor poison.
Erase me from the Book of Life, inscribe me in the Black Book of Death.
Admit me to the Ninth Gate.
Let it be so.
Let it be so now!
I feel the power surge through me like an electric current,
rendering me capable of any feat
of mind or body.
I'm invulnerable, I'm invincible!
I can float on air, I can walk on water.
I'm plunging my hands in fire,
I feel no heat!
This is great, here's another one.
Sic dedo me. Sic exeo me! Sic damno me!
It's miraculous!
I feel nothing, nothing at all!
Is that it?
Is the game over?
For Balkan yes. Not for you.
Why didn't it work for Balkan?
The ninth engraving was a forgery.
Where is the real one?
I want it.
You're running low in gas.
- Hello. Ceniza brothers. - Sorry?
- Ceniza brothers? - Pepe Lopez. Ricardo Herrera.
Sure...
Do you speak English?
# Transcripted and synched by lyliakar #
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org